TiUP: add three documents for cluster import, scale-in, and dm list (#5270)
pingcap/docs: tiup/tiup-component-cluster-scale-in.md

---
title: tiup cluster scale-in
---

# tiup cluster scale-in

The `tiup cluster scale-in` command is used to scale in the cluster, which takes the services of the specified nodes offline, removes the specified nodes from the cluster, and deletes the remaining files from those nodes.

> Because the TiKV, TiFlash and TiDB Binlog components are taken to offline asynchronously (the removal needs to be executed by the API first) and the stopping process takes a long time (the command needs to keep checking whether the specified nodes have been successfully stopped), the `tiup cluster scale-in` command handles the TiKV, TiFlash and TiDB Binlog components particularly as follows:

Reviewer: 原文是

```
由于 TiKV，TiFlash 和 TiDB Binlog 组件的下线是异步的（需要先通过 API 执行移除操作）并且下线过程耗时较长（需要持续观察节点是否已经下线成功），所以对 TiKV，TiFlash 和 TiDB Binlog 组件做了特殊处理
```

意思是，如果不采取下面这种特殊方案，那么 tiup 自己就不得不一直观察节点是否下线成功，期间命令是 hang 住的，不可以退出。由于采取了下面这种方案，所以可以避免一直hang在那里观察。

> Because the TiKV, TiFlash and TiDB Binlog components are taken to offline asynchronously (the removal needs to be executed by the API first) and the stopping process takes a long time (the command needs to keep checking whether the specified nodes have been successfully stopped), the `tiup cluster scale-in` command handles the TiKV, TiFlash and TiDB Binlog components particularly as follows:

Author: 那可以改成如下这样吗？"TiUP needs to keep checking", @TomShawn, @lucklove, PTAL, thanks!
```suggestion
Because the TiKV, TiFlash, and TiDB Binlog components are taken offline asynchronously (the removal needs to be executed through the API first) and the stopping process takes a long time (TiUP needs to keep checking whether the specified nodes have been successfully stopped), the `tiup cluster scale-in` command handles the TiKV, TiFlash, and TiDB Binlog components particularly as follows:
```

> Because the TiKV, TiFlash and TiDB Binlog components are taken to offline asynchronously (the removal needs to be executed by the API first) and the stopping process takes a long time (the command needs to keep checking whether the specified nodes have been successfully stopped), the `tiup cluster scale-in` command handles the TiKV, TiFlash and TiDB Binlog components particularly as follows:

Reviewer 2: LGTM

> - For TiKV, TiFlash and TiDB Binlog components:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For TiKV, TiFlash and, TiDB Binlog components:
```

> - For TiKV, TiFlash and TiDB Binlog components, the `tiup cluster scale-in` command makes the following operations:

Reviewer: No, the `tiup cluster scale-in` only call API of `PD`.

> - For TiKV, TiFlash and TiDB Binlog components, the `tiup cluster scale-in` command makes the following operations:

Reviewer: 其他操作由用户执行，不一定需要立刻执行，通过 display  命令看到有 `Tombstone` 状态的节点执行一下 tiup cluster prune 即可。

> - For TiKV, TiFlash and TiDB Binlog components, the `tiup cluster scale-in` command makes the following operations:

Reviewer 2: @qiancai For this part, we can reuse https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tiup-cluster#scale-in-a-cluster.

>     1. TiUP takes the node offline through API and directly exits without waiting for the process to be completed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. TiUP Cluster takes the node offline through API and directly exits without waiting for the process to be completed.
```

>     2. To check the status of the nodes being scaled in, you need to execute the `tiup cluster display` command, and wait for the status to be changed to `Tombstone`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. To check the status of the nodes being scaled in, you need to execute the `tiup cluster display` command and wait for the status to become `Tombstone`.
```

    3. To clean up the nodes in the `Tombstone` status, you need to execute the `tiup cluster prune` command. The `tiup cluster prune` command performs the following operations:

        - Stops the services of the nodes that have been taken offline.
        - Cleans up the data files of the nodes that have been taken offline.

>         - Updates the cluster topology and remove the nodes that have been taken offline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Updates the cluster topology and removes the nodes that have been taken offline.
```

> - For other components:
> 
>     - When taking the PD components offline, TiUP cluster quickly deletes the specified nodes from the cluster through API, stops the service of the specified PD nodes, and then deletes the related data files from the nodes.
>     - When taking other components down, TiUP cluster directly stops the node services and deletes the related data files from the specified nodes.

Reviewer 2: - This part should not be under "the TiKV, TiFlash, and TiDB Binlog components are handled particularly as follows:".
- "TiUP cluster"  is very likely to be understood as a cluster, not a component. Is "TiUP Cluster" better able to indicate that it's a component of TiUP? @lucklove 
```suggestion
For other components:

- When taking the PD components offline, TiUP Cluster quickly deletes the specified nodes from the cluster through API, stops the service of the specified PD nodes, and then deletes the related data files from the nodes.
- When taking other components down, TiUP Cluster directly stops the node services and deletes the related data files from the specified nodes.
```

## Syntax

```shell
tiup cluster scale-in <cluster-name> [flags]
```

`<cluster-name>` is the name of the cluster to scale in. If you forget the cluster name, you can check it using the [`tiup cluster list`](/tiup/tiup-component-cluster-list.md) command.

## Options

### -N, --node

> - Specifies the nodes to scale in, splitting by commas for multiple nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Specifies the nodes to take down. Multiple nodes are separated by commas.
```

- Data type: `STRING`
- There is no default value. This option is mandatory and the value must be not null.

### --force

> - Controls whether to forcibly remove the specified nodes from the cluster. In some cases, it is possible that the host of the node to scale down is down, making it impossible to connect to the node via SSH for operations, so you can forcibly remove the node from the cluster using the `-force` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Controls whether to forcibly remove the specified nodes from the cluster. Sometimes, the host of the node to take offline might be down, which makes it impossible to connect to the node via SSH for operations, so you can forcibly remove the node from the cluster using the `-force` option.
```

- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default with the `false` value. To enable this option, add this option to the command, and either pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

> **Note:**
>

> > Because the forced removal of a TiKV node does not wait for data to be scheduled, removing more than one serving TiKV node is in the risk of data loss.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Because the forced removal of a TiKV node does not wait for data to be scheduled, removing more than one serving TiKV node is at the risk of data loss.
```

### --transfer-timeout

> - When a PD or TiKV node is to be scaled down, the leader role of the node will be migrated to other nodes first. Because the migration process takes some time, you can set the maximum waiting time (in seconds) by configuring `-transfer-timeout`. After the timeout, the `tiup cluster scale-in` command skips waiting and starts the scaling down directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When a PD or TiKV node is to be removed, the Region leader on the node will be transferred to other nodes first. Because the transferring process takes some time, you can set the maximum waiting time (in seconds) by configuring `--transfer-timeout`. After the timeout, the `tiup cluster scale-in` command skips waiting and starts the scaling-in directly.
```

- Data type: `UINT`
- The option is enabled by default with `300` seconds (the default value) passed in.

> **Note:**
>

> > If a PD or TiKV node is scaled down directly without waiting for the leader role migration to be completed, the service performance may jitter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> If a PD or TiKV node is taken offline directly without waiting for the leader transfer to be completed, the service performance might jitter.
```

### -h, --help

- Prints the help information.
- Data type: `BOOLEAN`
- This option is disabled by default with the `false` value. To enable this option, add this option to the command, and either pass the `true` value or do not pass any value.

## Output

> Shows the logs of the scaling down process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Shows the logs of the scaling-in process.
```
